---
title: 2024-06-20 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
author: Bruce Morton
summary: These are the Final Minutes of the Teleconference described in the subject of this message.
date: 2024-06-20
tags:
  - Forum
  - Minutes
type: post
---

## Attendees

- Aaron Gable (Let's Encrypt)
- Aaron Poulsen (Amazon)
- Adrian Mueller (SwissSign)
- Adriano Santoni (Actalis S.p.A.)
- Ben Wilson (Mozilla)
- Brianca Martin (Amazon)
- Bruce Morton (Entrust)
- Chad Dandar (Cisco Systems)
- Corey Rasmussen (OATI)
- Dean Coclin (DigiCert)
- Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA)
- Doug Beattie (GlobalSign)
- Enrico Entschew (D-TRUST)
- Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign)
- Jaime Hablutzel (OISTE Foundation)
- Janet Hines (VikingCloud)
- Jos Purvis (Fastly)
- Kiran Tummala (Microsoft)
- Llew Curran (GoDaddy)
- Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS)
- Marco Schambach (IdenTrust)
- Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo)
- Michelle Coon (OATI)
- Miguel Sanchez (Google)
- Naveen Kumar (eMudhra)
- Nicol So (CommScope)
- Nome Huang (TrustAsia)
- Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust)
- Pedro Fuentes (OISTE Foundation)
- Rebecca Kelly (SSL.com)
- Sandy Balzer (SwissSign)
- Scott Rea (eMudhra)
- Tathan Thacker (IdenTrust)
- Thomas Zermeno (SSL.com)
- Tim Hollebeek (DigiCert)
- Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS)
- Tsung-Min Kuo (Chunghwa Telecom)
- Wayne Thayer (Fastly)
- Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority)

## Agenda

1. **Begin Recording - Roll Call**  
   Dimitris Zacharopoulos opened the meeting.

2. **Read note-well**  
   Dimitris read the note-well.

3. **Review of Agenda**  
   No additional topics were proposed.

4. **Approval of minutes from June 6, 2024 Teleconference**  
   (minutes were circulated 2024-06-07) - approved

5. **Server Certificate Working Group update (Inigo)**  
   Made summary from F2F, continued to triage open issues and continued with the PAG. Continued working with ballot SC67 and 75. Validation SC was working on improving registration numbers and alternative for registration agencies. Enrico proposing change to LDAP schemes. Working on F2F minutes. Dimitris is working on F2F minutes and is having troubles with links to presentations. Paul offered some advice and support from other meetings.

6. **Code Signing Certificate Working Group update (Bruce)**  
   Ballot for removing EVG references from CSBRs is in voting period. Time-stamp ballot failed due to quorum and needs to be re-submitted. We are also working on simplifying EV requirements, since Microsoft wants one version of Code Signing certificates.

7. **S/MIME Certificate Working Group update (Stephen)**  
   Had presentation from Tim H on PQC and S/MIME. Recently passed SMC07 for Logging and Private Key Escrow. Soon starting SMC08 to deprecate Legacy Profile; expect to start next week. Looking at ballot SC67 since the change would impact domain validation for S/MIME, so may be looking at setting a specific TLS BR version.

8. **NetSec Working Group update (Clint)**  
   Clint was not available and no update was provided.

9. **Definitions and Glossary Working Group (Tim H.)**  
   Mailing list is setup. Had a kick-off at F2F. Will test mailing list, pick a time for a meeting and set up a new meeting.

10. **Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee update (Jos)**  
    Migration of Infrastructure mailing list is complete and has been functional. Martijn is working on other mailing lists which could be migrated during IPR periods, but not in voting periods. Archives are now being uploaded as each group gets migrated. Need to update instructions as to how to join and read the archives. There were discussions about the “Google” account required and there may be some issues with using a corporate email account. We have a 4-eyes policy for pull requests, but we might not have enough people. Creating a new group for reviewers who the WG Chair can assign to help approve pull requests.

11. **Intellectual Property Rights Subcommittee (Ben)**  
    Scheduled first call for Monday 1 July 2024. Have updated wiki for new subcommittee.

12. **Any Other Business**  
    Ben would like to highlight the creation of a discussion group for section 4.9.1.1 revocation 24hr/5days. This was discussed at F2F under the Forum, but should be discussed under a WG for IPR reasons. Consider creating a cross-functional issues working group under IPR to discuss issues that impact all three working groups working on BR documents.

13. **Next call**  
    July 4 call cancelled. Next call will be July 18, 2024.

14. **Adjourn**
