---
title: 2024-09-12 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
author: Dimitris Zacharopoulos
summary: Final minutes of the CA/B Forum call held on September 12, 2024.
date: 2024-09-12
tags:
  - Forum
  - Minutes
type: post
---

## Attendees

- Aaron Poulsen (Amazon)
- Adam Jones (Microsoft)
- Adrian Mueller (SwissSign)
- Andrea Holland (VikingCloud)
- Ben Wilson (Mozilla)
- Brianca Martin (Amazon)
- Bruce Morton (Entrust)
- Chad Dandar (Cisco Systems)
- Clint Wilson (Apple)
- Corey Bonnell (DigiCert)
- Corey Rasmussen (OATI)
- David Kluge (Google)
- Dean Coclin (DigiCert)
- Dimitris Zacharopoulos (HARICA)
- Dustin Hollenback (Microsoft)
- Gregory Tomko (GlobalSign)
- Inaba Atsushi (GlobalSign)
- Iñigo Barreira (Sectigo)
- Jaime Hablutzel (OISTE Foundation)
- Ji Eun Seong (MOIS of the republic of Korea)
- Johnny Reading (GoDaddy)
- Jos Purvis (Fastly)
- Karina Sirota (Microsoft)
- Kiran Tummala (Microsoft)
- Llew Curran (GoDaddy)
- Luis Cervantes (GoDaddy)
- Mads Henriksveen (Buypass AS)
- Mahua Chaudhuri (Microsoft)
- Marco Schambach (IdenTrust)
- Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo)
- Michelle Coon (OATI)
- Miguel Sanchez (Google)
- Mrugesh Chandarana (IdenTrust)
- Nargis Mannan (VikingCloud)
- Nate Smith (GoDaddy)
- Nicol So (CommScope)
- Nome Huang (TrustAsia)
- Paul van Brouwershaven (Entrust)
- Peter Miskovic (Disig)
- Rebecca Kelly (SSL.com)
- Rollin Yu (TrustAsia)
- Scott Rea (eMudhra)
- Stephen Davidson (DigiCert)
- Tadahiko Ito (SECOM Trust Systems)
- Tathan Thacker (IdenTrust)
- Thomas Zermeno (SSL.com)
- Tobias Josefowitz (Opera Software AS)
- Trevoli Ponds-White (Amazon)
- Tsung-Min Kuo (Chunghwa Telecom)
- Wayne Thayer (Fastly)
- Wendy Brown (US Federal PKI Management Authority)

## Agenda Review

- Approval of Aug 29th minutes: Approved

## SCWG Update

- Inigo gave the update on SCWG. A new version of the BRs was published with an important change regarding the MPIC ballot. A new section discusses how to perform this validation. The date of March 15th, 2025 is significant for these changes.
- Another ballot in IPR review regarding the naming of the WebTrust certifications should finish IPR by the end of October.
- Corey summarized the Validation subcommittee actions, mentioning Paul's ballot on policy OIDs and cross-certificates which is under discussion in the SCWG.

## CSCWG Update

- Bruce provided updates. Ian is working on a ballot to reduce the certificate lifetime of code signing certs. A discussion on "EV/OV consolidation" will occur at the next F2F.

## SMIME Update

- Stephen updated that a ballot to update the audit requirements acknowledges the new WebTrust for netsec.
- The effective date for the MPIC adoption for SMIME is decided for May 15, 2025, allowing for discussion around it at the F2F.

## NetSec Working Group

- Clint reported on NS004 discussions, which have entered the discussion period with upcoming ballots on workstations and passwords.

## Definitions and Glossary Working Group

- Tim H. was not present on the call.

## Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee

- Jos provided updates on the migration to the new server and handling of mailing lists.

## IPR Subcommittee

- Ben discussed extending the IPR group as it’s about to terminate and keeping guest speakers at the WG level for IPR issue management.

## 2024 Elections

- Dimitris reminded attendees to vote as voting ends on September 16th at 11 AM ET, with vice chair elections starting the same day.

## F2F Prep

- Trev mentioned that the Pan Pacific hotel booking deadline is nearing, urging attendees to reserve ASAP.

## Next Call

- The next meeting is cancelled; the next gathering will be at the F2F.

## Meeting Adjourned
