---
title: 2024-05-23 Minutes of the CA/Browser Forum Teleconference
author: Iñigo Barreira
summary: Final minutes from the CABF Teleconference held on May 23, 2024.
date: 2024-05-23
tags:
  - Forum
  - Minutes
type: post
---

## Attendees

- Aaron Gable - (Let's Encrypt)
- Aaron Poulsen - (Amazon)
- Abdul Hakeem Putra - (MSC Trustgate Sdn Bhd)
- Adam Jones - (Microsoft)
- Andrea Holland - (VikingCloud)
- Ben Wilson - (Mozilla)
- Brianca Martin - (Amazon)
- Clint Wilson - (Apple)
- Corey Bonnell - (DigiCert)
- Doug Beattie - (GlobalSign)
- Dustin Hollenback - (Microsoft)
- Inaba Atsushi - (GlobalSign)
- Inigo Barreira - (Sectigo)
- Jaime Hablutzel - (OISTE Foundation)
- Janet Hines - (VikingCloud)
- Johnny Reading - (GoDaddy)
- Kiran Tummala - (Microsoft)
- Mahua Chaudhuri - (Microsoft)
- Marco Schambach - (IdenTrust)
- Martijn Katerbarg - (Sectigo)
- Nargis Mannan - (VikingCloud)
- Nate Smith - (GoDaddy)
- Nicol So - (CommScope)
- Rebecca Kelly - (SSL.com)
- Rich Smith - (DigiCert)
- Ryan Dickson - (Google)
- Scott Rea - (eMudhra)
- Tadahiko Ito - (SECOM Trust Systems)
- Tim Hollebeek - (DigiCert)
- Tobias Josefowitz - (Opera Software AS)
- Wendy Brown - (US Federal PKI Management Authority)

**Note Well:** Read by Iñigo.

### Meeting Agenda

Approved.

### Minutes

Minutes of May 9, 2024, were approved.

### Working Group Updates

- **Server Cert WG:** No call today. A new version of TLS BRs (v. 2.0.4) has been published. Anyone wanting to add anything to the next F2F agenda should do so on the wiki. Corey reported that the Validation Subcommittee is working on their F2F agenda, with two topics:

  - Converting the Validation Subcommittee to a full-fledged working group
  - Discussing a ballot to reduce confusion that led to a recent incident (serialNumber attribute for Government Entities).

- **Code Signing WG:** Corey reported a meeting last week:

  - Dimitris is working on importing language from the EVGs into CS BRs (instead of updating section numbers, language is being added directly into the CS BRs).
  - Time stamping issue - Ballot CSC-24 (v3): Timestamping Private Key Protection is in Voting Period until May 27 with new requirements for anyone running a time-stamping service.
  - Relaxing requirements for HSMs and key protection based on recent experience.
  - Discussion of F2F agenda items.

- **S/MIME WG:** Martijn mentioned this week's call was cancelled. No real update, only that the IPR review has passed on SMIME 6, the clarifications ballot. Contact Stephen with any additions to the F2F agenda.

- **Forum Infrastructure Subcommittee:** Discussed migrating the mailing lists and creating the officers handbook.

- **NetSec WG:** Clint mentioned this week's call was cancelled. The ballot to amend section 4 of the NCSSRs will continue to be worked on, awaiting the IPR review period on the other NetSec ballot. Further discussions will take place at the F2F meeting on agenda items added.

- **IPR Subcommittee:** Ballot FORUM-22 (IPR Review Subcommittee) passed. Ben will convene the new group and intends to use a Google Groups email group as a test case for mail migration.

- **Patent Advisory Group:** PAG gave GoDaddy an extension to respond, and the PAG call is rescheduled to Monday, June 3.

### F2F Agenda

Dimitris has asked that the agenda be approved. There were no objections, agenda approved.

### Any Other Business

None.

### Next Call

Scheduled for June 5, 2024.

### Meeting Adjourned.
