---
author: Corey Bonnell
date: 2024-09-22 00:00:00
tags:
- Minutes
- Code Signing
title: 2024-09-22 Minutes of the Code Signing Certificate Working Group
type: post
---

## Attendees

Bruce Morton (Entrust), Corey Bonnell (DigiCert), Andrea Holland (VikingCloud), AtsushiI Inaba (GlobalSign, Brian Winters (IdenTrust), Ian Macmillan (Microsoft),  Marco Schambach (IdenTrust), Scott Rea (eMudra), Tim Crawford ( BDO ), Tim Hollebeek (DigiCert), Nate Santiago ( Microsoft ), Martijn Karterbarg (Sectigo), Mohit Kumar (GlobalSign), Brianca Martin (Amazon)

## Minutes

Antitrust reminder – Read

Approve prior meeting minutes – Sept 5th  (Brianca) – Approved

### Max validity of CS certs (Ian) – proposal

* Ian McMillan to send out within 2-3 weeks the proposed language change and justification for maximum validity of code signing certificates
* Need at least two endorsers 
* Nate Santiago to start participating in discussions and potentially replace Ian McMillan in future conversations

### Fall elections: Vice Chair nomination

* Have new Chair (Martijn)
* Nominations for a vice chair in the code signing working group will be discussed in the forum 
* Tim: If no one responds within the CS WG, we go to the Forum to get nominations
* Martijn and Bruce are disqualified and so it is Tim Crawford
* Dean could be nominated but he is already appointed as the new Forum Chair

### Preparing for F2F

Proposed topics:

1.	Focus on consolidating the differences between non-EV CS and EV CS certificates.
2.	Ian : Have discussion on post-quantum algorithms and certificate types.
    1.	Algorithms
    2.	Cert types
    3.	Tim and Nate volunteer to lead this discussion for 30-45 minutes
    4.	Need level setting and then review the available options
    5.	Identify use cases

Tim H: ICA and Root creation Post Quantum (PQ) will require a lot of transition/migration

Ian: Need to clear the requirements for applying PQ

3.	Ballot review
    1.	None pending

### Other business
* Bruce: Email thread about the redlined document of the CS BR v 3.7
* Corey: 
    * There were 2 published versions, but the approved version was an old version. 
    * Should the approved version be corrected, although it passed IPR? 
    * Should a new ballot be created acknowledging the error and confirming that the final clean version is correct?
    * Any objections to keep documents as they are now?  
    * No Objection raised but agreed to add an agenda item in the F2F in Seattle to includes a review of the code signing BR version 3.7 red line and potential cleanup items.
    * Consider a cleanup ballot to remove unnecessary text prior to effective dates

*	Andrea Holland: Viking Cloud is stepping away from the CS WG

Next meeting – Oct 3rd, should we cancel? F2F following week
No objections to cancel and conduct the following meeting during the F2F meeting in Seattle 
